EMMA
EMMA is a plagiarism software which uses artificial intelligence. Emma uses machine learning and artificial intelligence to study the innards of each author’s writing style and attributes authorship on their basis. EMMA is developed by Aleksandr Marchenko who is now the CEO too.
“To run the check, one needs to upload a text of at least 5,000 words by one author,” CEO Aleksandr Marchenko told Digital Trends. “Then Emma analyzes and learns the author’s writing style, and can determine whether all the subsequent texts you upload belong to the same author. The technology will render its verdict in the form of a percentage.”
Marchenko explained that the technology combines natural language processing (NLP) and machine learning with the techniques of stylometry, a study of linguistic style rooted in the 15th century. He claims that the result is an AI that’s capable of exhibiting 85 percent accuracy in correctly determining an author.
More than 50 mathematical parameters stand behind every author’s writing identity. The issue is of a striking complexity: it’s extremely difficult to define and assess style features of a vexing number of authors, and to implement the extracted knowledge into an NLP technology. Their team of researchers, scientists and engineers have set out to create an algorithm that could surmount that challenge and develop such a technology that could operate on minimal sets of texts and reach an accuracy level worthy of a successful commercial product.

AI can be used to combat hackers and enhance cybersecurity. Conventional technology is past-centric and depends heavily on known attackers and attacks, leaving room for blind spots when it comes to detecting abnormal events in new-age attacks. The limitations of older defense technologies are now being addressed through machine learning.
 With larger amounts of data and examples, machines can better learn and adapt to spotting anomalies, more quickly and accurately. This is especially useful as cyber attacks are becoming increasingly sophisticated, and hackers are coming up with new and innovative approaches, of which older security technologies would be slow to detect.
